#summary reglib's onload and traversal tools.

= Introduction =

Despite its evils, the load-traverse-modify model of JavaScript development is often unavoidable. For example, since form submit events don't bubble, reglib lacks a `reg.submit()` method. Form elements must therefore be hunted down and wrestled to the ground in order to get them to submit. reglib offers tools to make this as (relatively) painless as possible.

=load-traverse-modify methods=

==reg.setup(selectorString, setupFunction)==

Calling this method queries the DOM for elements matching `selectorString`, and runs `setupFunction` against those elements. See ReglibSelectors for more info on selector syntax.

*Important:* the query does not run when you call `reg.setup()`, but rather when the `onload` event fires (or `DOMContentLoaded` fires, whichever comes first). When you call `reg.setup()` you're queuing up a to-do list of items to search for when it comes time to scan the DOM. 

Here's an example, and roughly equivalent code in JQuery for reference:

{{{
// reglib
reg.setup('form.foo',function(){
    addEvent(this, 'submit', function(e){
        ...validate the form...
        if (!isValid) {
            alert("foo form is not valid");
            cancelDefault(e);
        }
    });
});
}}}

{{{
/// JQuery
$(document).ready(function(){
    $('form.foo').submit(function(e){
        ...validate the form...
        if (!isValid) {
            alert("foo form is not valid");
            e.preventDefault();
        }
    });
});
}}}

*Note:* additions to the DOM by `setupFunction` will not be included in the DOM scan. For example:

{{{
reg.setup('p',function(){
    document.body.appendChild(reg.newElement('p',null,'this is a paragraph'));
    this.style.backgroundColor = 'red';
});
}}}

Will result in a bunch of non-red paragraphs appearing at the end of the page.

==reg.rerun(el)==

If `el` was added after the `onload` event fired, you can use this method to re-execute the `reg.setup()` to-do list against `el` (and its descendants) to make sure it too gets the behavior it needs.

{{{
var johnnyComeLately = elem('div');
johnnyComeLately.innerHTML = threeHundredKilobytesOfHtml;
document.body.appendChild(johnnyComeLately);
reg.rerun(johnnyComeLately);
}}}

==reg.preSetup(function) and reg.postSetup(function)==

These both also create to-do lists of actions to perform when the `onload` event fires. Unlike `reg.setup()` however, they don't run against specific nodes, they just blindly run onload. This makes for a grand total of _three_ to-do lists that need to be executed onload. The `reg.preSetup()` list goes first, the `reg.setup()` list goes second, the `reg.postSetup()` goes third. This guaranteed ordering can come in handy.

`reg.preSetup()` and `reg.postSetup()` are often preferable to `reg.setup()`:

{{{
// this works, but it's wasteful because
// it initiates a DOM crawl. this is O(N) where
// N is the number of elements in the document
reg.setup('#foo', function(){
    ...do something with this...
});
}}}

{{{
// this does the same thing, but
// is O(1) rather than O(N)
reg.postSetup(function(){
    var el = document.getElementById('foo');
    if (!el) { return; }
    ...do something with el...
});
}}}